
install.packages("ggplot2", dependencies = T) 
install.packages("knitr", dependencies = T)
install.packages("dplyr", dependencies = T)

document your exploration and analysis in an RMD file which you will submit

1. A stream-of-consciousness analysis and exploration of the data.

a. Headings and text should organize your thoughts and reflect your analysis as you explored the data.
b. Plots in this analysis do not need to be polished with labels, units, and titles; these plots are exploratory 
(quick and dirty). They should, however, be of the appropriate type and effectively convey the information you 
glean from them.
c. You can iterate on a plot in the same R chunk, but you don’t need to show every plot iteration in your analysis.


2. A section at the end called “Final Plots and Summary”

You will select three plots from your analysis to polish and share in this section. 
The three plots should show different trends and should be polished with appropriate labels, units, and titles 
(see the Project Rubric for more information).


3. A final section called “Reflection”

This should contain a few sentences about your struggles, successes, and ideas for future exploration 
on the data set (see the Project Rubric for more information).


The data set you submit (only if you chose your own) should include a text file, like those in the R documentation 
(e.g. ?diamonds) that describes the source of your data and an explanation of the variables in the data set 
(definition of any variables, units, levels of categorical variables, and the data generating process, such as 
	how data was collected if possible).



What to include in your submission?

The RMD file containing the analysis (final plots and summary, and reflection)
the HTML file knitted from the RMD file using the knitr package
the original data set and source if you used your own data rather than one recommended by Udacity 
(Note: do not submit a data set if you used one that Udacity recommended)
A list of Web sites, books, forums, blog posts, github repositories, etc. that you referred to or used in 
creating your submission (add N/A if you did not use any such resources).



Your project must avoid these common problems in order to pass.

- Insufficient documentation of transformation steps. Data processing or transformations 
(creating a categorical variable) should be performed programmatically and included in the RMD file 
and the final knitted HTML output. When you perform these operations, make sure you have text that 
documents the creation of these transformed variables.
- Insufficient comments following plots. For every plot or related group of plots, make sure you follow 
them with a text chunk that describes what can be observed or understood. Your reader should be able to 
follow your thought processes through the alternating text and visualization sections.
- Final Plots section is not included. Following your main exploration (univariate, bivariate, and 
	multivariate plots and analysis), you need to select three visualizations to present in the final 
plots section. Make sure that these plots illustrate the most interesting findings or patterns from 
your investigation. The plots should now be polished with appropriate visualization types, titles, 
and axis labels with units. See the subsection below for notes on making plots for this part of the 
project report.
- Reflection section is not included or is not the last section in the RMD file. Make sure you have 
a reflection section following your Final Plots section that summarizes your exploration and provides 
some thoughts for future analysis. This should be the last part of the document.



The Final Plots section in your RMD file should contain three polished plots that give insight into the 
data set that you investigated.

Each plot should also contain a caption or description about what the plot shows.

	Draw comparisons.
	Identify trends.
	Engage a wide audience.
	Explain a complicated finding.
	Clarify a gap between perception and reality.
	Enable the reader to digest large amounts of information.

	are axes labeled?
	are units labeled on each axis?
	are plots titled?
	are all labels, titles, and units readable?


Reflections

	Where did I run into difficulties in the analysis?
	Where did I find successes?
	How could the analysis be enriched in future work (e.g. additional data and analyses)?




